**Chapter 1 | Geneology**
- Geneaology of Iesous (1-17)
	- Who does this connect Iesous to?
		- Connected to important hibru from hibru bibe
- Virgin Birth (18-25)
	- What does a virgin birth mean in this context?
		- Unusualness / uniqueness of an even. That Jesus is not just some guy who has said he's a son of god. It gives some evidence

**Chapter 2 | King and Exile**
- Client-king Herodes learns of the saviour's birth (1-6)
- Herodes scheming, senses ieosus specialness; 3 wise men (7-12)
- Flight into Aiguptos (Egypt) (13-15)
- Slaughter of the Innocents 16-18
- Return from Aiguptos 19-end
	- What does this echo?
		- refers to continuation of Jeudaism. Like Jew people, Jesus has expirienced exile and return

**Chapter 3 | Baptizing**
- Ioannes the Baptizer and his ministry 1-12
- Ioannes baptized Iesous 13-end
- Why is he reluctant to do so?
	- He thinks Jesus is so important, this baby should baptize him, rather then in reverse.
	- Ioannes predicts the comming of Jesus to him
- What are we to make of the way that Ioannes is described by Matthew?

**Chapter 4 | Temptations & Walking**
- Satanas tempts Iesous 1-11
	- food
	- save yourself
	- power and riches
	- What do these things have in common?
		- Those things are what mortals crave
- Four fisherment callled as disciples 18-22
- Iesous heals a great multitude 23-25
	- What does healling suggest?
		- That a guy is not just gathers people and heals them. He does good deeds. It suggest that he is able to give people eternal life. (aka healing is just a step)
- News begin to spread

**Chapter 5 | Beautitutes & Rule Extension**
- Setting and Beatitutudes 1-12
	- What is common amongst those people?
		- oppressed
		- apposed
		- on the margins
		- vulnerable
- Salt and Light 13-16
- Law and the Prophets 17-20
	- "I am not here to abolish the law, but to fulfill and add"
- Do not hate 21-26
- Do not lust 27-30
- Do no divorce, except for sexual misconduct 31-32
- Do not swear oaths 33-37
- Do not retaliate 38-42
	- eye for an eye?
	- turn the other cheek
- Love your enemies 43-38
	- "Love not just your neighbour, but enemies"

#### Decalogue (The Commendnats)
**Murder**
A person killing a person.

*"Malice aforethought"*
1. Intent to kill, and it results in death
2. Inntent to cause serious bodily injury
3. depraved hear -- recklesness
4. Felony murder docctrine
	- Created/engaged in situation so dangerous it caused a death

